Document import_executor manifest.json field (#2088)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2024-02-25-import_executor.md

---
author: J. Nick Koston
authorURL: https://github.com/bdraco
title: Importing integrations that may block the event loop
---

> Starting from Home Assistant 2024.3, `import_executor` can be specified in the `manifest.json` to facilitate importing an integration in the executor to avoid blocking the event loop. Setting this flag can significantly improve startup stability for integrations that do significant work at import time.

Reviewer: Is there a reason we should not enable this? If this is new and great, why don't we enable it for all integrations?

Author: If it takes 0.00 to import (which will be the case for most small integrations) it ends up creating an executor job that could have been avoided

> Debug logging is available by enabling the `homeassistant.loader` logger to help integration code owners determine import times. Consider enabling this flag if warnings are observed when using [asyncio debug mode](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-dev.html#asyncio-debug-mode) or import times take more than a few hundred milliseconds.

Reviewer: On what device should we test this? I can imagine a desktop processor would have less performance issues than a RPi3 or so.

Author: We should test it on the worst supported hardware

> Debug logging is available by enabling the `homeassistant.loader` and `homeassistant.setup` loggers to help integration code owners determine import times. Consider enabling this flag if warnings are observed when using [asyncio debug mode](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-dev.html#asyncio-debug-mode) or import times take more than a few hundred milliseconds.

Author: ```suggestion
Debug logging is available by enabling the `homeassistant.loader` logger to help integration code owners determine import times. Consider enabling this flag if warnings are observed when using [asyncio debug mode](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-dev.html#asyncio-debug-mode) or import times take more than a few hundred milliseconds.
```
